feat(curriculum): add binary search tree (#52371)
freeCodeCamp/freeCodeCamp: curriculum/challenges/english/20-upcoming-python/learn-tree-traversal-by-building-a-binary-search-tree/655a15b683445611528cccf1.md

---
id: 655a15b683445611528cccf1
title: Step 18
challengeType: 20
dashedName: step-18
---

# --description--

At the end of your `_insert` method, after the insertion process is complete, return the current node to update the tree structure at the higher levels of the recursive call stack.

# --hints--

You should return the current node outside the conditional blocks.

```js
({ test: () => assert.match(e.code.original["main.py"], /^\s{8}return\s+node/m) })
```

# --seed--

## --seed-contents--

```py
class TreeNode:
    def __init__(self, key):
        self.key = key
        self.left = None
        self.right = None

class BinarySearchTree:
    def __init__(self):
        self.root = None

    def insert(self,key):
        self.root = self._insert(self.root, key)

--fcc-editable-region--
    def _insert(self, node, key):
        if node is None:
            return TreeNode(key)
        if key < node.key:
            node.left = self._insert(node.left, key)

>         elif key > node.key:
>             node.right = self._insert(node.right, key)                

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        elif key >= node.key:
            node.right = self._insert(node.right, key)                
```
Should the code also handle cases when the `key` is equal to `node.key`? If the tree may have duplicates, this condition could be updated to use the `>=` operator.

Author: Yes, there isn't a separate sace for equality. But, the code implicitly handles the case of a duplicate key by not performing a recursive call in that situation and returns the current node unchanged.

---
id: 655a15b683445611528cccf1
title: Step 19
challengeType: 20
dashedName: step-19
---

# --description--

> After the insertion process is complete, whether it's a new node at a leaf node or modifications in the left or right subtrees, return the current node to update the tree structure at the higher levels of the recursive call stack.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At the end of your `_insert` method, after the insertion process is complete, return the current node to update the tree structure at the higher levels of the recursive call stack.
```

# --hints--

You should return the current node.

```js
({ test: () => assert.match(code, /return\s*node/) });
```

# --seed--

## --seed-contents--

```py
class TreeNode:
    def __init__(self, key):
        self.key = key
        self.left = None
        self.right = None

class BinarySearchTree:
    def __init__(self):
        self.root = None

    def insert(self,key):
        self.root = self._insert(self.root, key)

>     def _insert(self, node, key):
>         if node is None:
>             return TreeNode(key)
>         if key < node.key:
>             node.left = self._insert(node.left, key)
>         elif key > node.key:
>             node.right = self._insert(node.right, key)
> --fcc-editable-region--
>                 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
--fcc-editable-region--
    def _insert(self, node, key):
        if node is None:
            return TreeNode(key)
        if key < node.key:
            node.left = self._insert(node.left, key)
        elif key > node.key:
            node.right = self._insert(node.right, key)                
```
